Hi everyone. So it would seem that
Microsoft is
rather desperate to bring out some exclusives for their Xbox One
console in 2015.
They've done a deal with Crystal
Dynamics, makers and creators and
publishers of Tomb Raider
to bring the new Tomb Raider game
exclusively to Xbox
in 2015. Now one thing I noticed during the conference was how quick they were to add the words 2015,
that does suggest to me that this is a timed exclusive not a locked-in
exclusive. Essentially we should see
Tomb Raider
appearing on the PlayStation consoles
in 2016 I would say.
Now Microsoft must have ponied-up a
substantial amount of money
right now to do this deal because I can't
see any
reasonable publisher saying to itself
hang on a second, 5 million consoles there,
10 million consoles there. Why don't we sell for both and have 15 million
potential copies of this game sold. What
Microsoft must have done
is underwritten all of the sales they were
expecting to get
on Sony's console and then thrown in some extra cash as well.
Will this make a difference for
Microsoft?
Does having Tomb Raider sell consoles?
Mmmm
I don't think it does. No matter the
quality of the new Tomb Raider games
that are being produced,
it's not really a console shifter. It's a
very single player game
at the end of the day. It's going to be
interesting to see what the sales
numbers do with this
I would expect to see it in bundled Xbox
One and
Tomb Raider special edition of some sort
around the game's release
but I don't think it's going to shift
consoles. Microsoft has a real problem
right now.
None of the games that have appeared in their slate have really
screamed to me, I want to buy an Xbox One console.
I already own one, obviously. But from a
point of view of mass consumers none of
these games that I saw at Gamescom from
Microsoft really
gave me that... ooh, they've done it, this is
the game that
everyone is going to want to jump on and
play, I don't think Tomb Raider also can
be included there
really. Thanks for watching, do please
isubscribe to us on YouTube and Twitch
and please like and comment on these
videos as well. We love to chat.